"But whoso shall cause one of these little ones who believe in Me to fall, it were better for him that a millstone were hung about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea."
Matthew 18:6, KJ21

"Knocking him down won the first fight. I wanted to win all the next ones, too. So they'd leave me alone."
-Ender Wiggen, /Ender's Game/

Hi. My name is David █████████, and this is a true retelling of my 6th grade at John Sevier Middle School in Kingsport, Tennessee. I am writing this down for the first time because I believe my story has value to parents, educators, policy makers, and other children. This story of violence, trust, and school safety, happened in the 2001-2002 school year, when I was 11, so for accuraccy I do not attempt to reconstruct anything that I cannot remember clearly. I have not included any exaggeration or hyperbole, except to recount my singularly bad attempt at it that resulted in me dropping out of 6th grade.

To understand this story you need to know a few things about me. The first is that in certain ways I am very, very, smart. I score embarrassingly well on IQ and other aptitude tests. My reading comprehension was rated "Grade 13+" when I was 9 or 10. I don't think that was actually true, but I did max out the reading comprehension tests available to my elementary school. I would read encyclopedias in my spare time, and when I had exhausted all available science fiction, dictionaries. I think very quickly, and combined with my broad reading base, I could sound very knowledgeable on a variety of topics.

In many other ways I am very, very stupid. My sense of direction is basically zero; I have difficulty finding my way back to the waiting room from a doctor's office. More relevant to the story is my social development was severely retarded. After many years of special classes and deliberate practice, I can now fake a semblance of normalcy and even carry on a conversation. 11-year old me did not have most of that training. I was bad at making eye contact and smiled at all the wrong times. I couldn't handle small talk; even a casual "What's up?" would stop me in my tracks as I tried to come up with a good response, or simply ignored the person if that was too much effort. I came off as insensitive and abrubt.

I am white and comfortably middle-class. Both of my parents are highly educated; my mother was a programmer for NASA before I was born, and my dad does something very clever and in-demand with radio wave amplifiers. His salary was enough that my mother was able to retire and become a stay-at-home mother when I was born. I have one sibling, a younger sister. We were raised Catholic. My parents were not disciplinarians, but neither could it be said that we were spoiled or allowed to run loose. We were not allowed toy weapons or violent video games. I want to stress that nothing in the coming story can be attributed to poor or neglectful parenting; my parents were nothing but loving and invested in my growth and education.

The only thing you could possibly fault my parents for is moving to Tennessee while I was in 3rd grade. I did not adapt well to changing schools. By the end of elementary school, I had made only two semi-close school friends, neither of whom would be with me in 6th grade. I entered 6th grade and John Sevier Middle School friendless and with very substandard social skills. It did not take long for me to become a victim of pervasive bullying.

The bulk of the bullying was cruel teasing and social exclusion. Other students freely invented rumours about how I was dirty and stupid, or simply baited me to see my poorly-controlled emotional response. The best sport was when I tried to retaliate by being mean back, because then they got to laugh at my comical attempts to make someone feel bad. One student told a teacher just entering the classroom that I had been cursing, when I had been sitting quietly reading. Another made fun of my penis in the bathroom. It took me years to be able to use a urinal again; I still prefer peeing in stalls.

In school television dramas, there is typically a mean student who periodically antagonizes the main character and his friends. After the physically large bully shoves the main character into a locker, his friends comfort him and they come up with a zany scheme to get even which results in everyone learning a life lesson. Television bullying is not at all like the real thing. Bullying is not carried out by a single antisocial thug. Bullying is not a one-off event or even a series of events. Bullying is when everybody decides that /you/ aren't one of /us/ and tries to punish you for it. In television, the main character victim has friends, because there needs to be supporting characters. Not all of my classmates actively harassed me; a few were even nice on occasion. But I had no friends I could rely on.

I quickly came to hate and fear school. I tried talking to teachers and a guidance counselor, but it didn't help. The closest thing to good advice I got was to simply ignore people being mean to me. It has never been clear to me how ignoring everyone was supposed to solve my problem of not having any friends, but that didn't matter because 11-year-old socially-retarded me was physically incapable of preventing his face from turning red when taunted. The only thing the "just ignore them" advice did was convince me that it was my fault for not being strong enough to resist bullying. The mature adults my age are just now realizing that the only constant in their failed relationships is themselves. I internalized that terrible truth at age 11.

On at least one occasion, either a teacher or a guidance counselor sat down with with me and some of my tormentors to talk things out, but the other kids would say things to the effect that they were just playing and didn't mean for me to take it personally. The adult would tell them that even though they weren't trying to hurt my feelings, they were, so they should stop. Needless to say they didn't. If anything my bullying got worse, because I had escalated the situation by involving a teacher, and because now they knew that I knew that the teachers weren't going to do anything.

I had heard adults say that bullying is a unavoidable and even necessary part of growing up, that it teaches you to be tough and stand up for yourself. In children's fiction, there's a common theme of the protagonist learning some moral and using it to stand up to a bully as a symbolic step in growing up. Often that moral is simply to stand up for yourself, show you're not afraid, and the bully will back off. If the bully doesn't back off, then there will be a fistfight. After the hero wins, everyone is impressed by his courage and strength and wants to be his friend again. Very probably, a girl will kiss him.

I knew that fighting was bad, that even if someone else started it it was wrong to hit people. I had a taken a small amount of Tae-Kwon-Do as a much younger child, and while I didn't learn anything resembling martial arts, I did have hear over and over that violence was only to be used as a last resort.

I tried being nice, but I was still bullied.
I tried being mean, but I was still bullied.
I tried ignoring them, but I was still bullied.
I tried asking teachers, but I was still bullied.
I tried asking guidance counselors, but I was still bullied.

I think it is very dangerous to teach children that violence is the last resort, because they might believe you.

The first fight I got into was very stupid. I was walking from one class to another between periods, carrying a lot of textbooks. Backpacks were to be kept in lockers during the day, because it was feared that we might hide a weapon in one. Even before 9/11, people were very concerned about school violence. Columbine had happened less than than two years ago, in 1999, and there were many more school shootings in 2000 and early 2001. I remember reading articles in the newspaper about how to talk to your children about school shootings 9/11. I wonder if it ever occurred to the authors of those articles that children might read them directly?

Anyway, I was carrying a large stack of textbooks in my arms because we were forbidden backpacks. Someone tripped me from behind. I fell on my face and the books went sliding everywhere. I said earlier that television bullying was not at all like the real thing. That was a small lie, because this fall was exactly like on television. I have since tried to learn how to do a stage fall and I will never be able to fall on purpose as perfectly as I did that day. All around me, people began to laugh. I was humiliated. I don't think it was the physical attack as much as the sheer audacity that got to me. You can't trip someone and then say "I was only teasing." It wasn't even real-world bullying -- tripping someone so they drop all of their books is straight out of a comic book! I stood up. People was still laughing. I fixed on one boy. I don't know if he was the closest, or just the first person I noticed. He was certainly the smallest boy there. And he was laughing at me. I completely lost it.

I attacked. I don't remember much about the fight itself, except that I seriously wanted to hurt this kid. We were on the second floor balcony, overlooking the atrium, and I tried to push him through the railing over the edge. Fortunately, he didn't fit. At some point a teacher broke us up and took us to the principal's office. The fight had no clear winner or loser, even though I was much bigger then the other boy.

I also don't remember specifics about what happened in the principal's office. They interviewed other kids, and it was determined that someone other than the small boy I attacked had tripped me. I realized that made sense; the small boy was more of a hanger-on than a primary bully anyway. His only crime was laughing at me when I fell -- and, I had to admit, it must have looked pretty funny to a someone watching. I apologized. I think I had to write a physical apology letter. My punishment from school was a day of in-school suspension, the minimum for fighting, as I had been provoked and this was my first offense. (No one else was suspended or punished.) My parents grounded me for a significantly longer period of time. This seemed fair to me, because I knew that fighting was wrong and I had been the first person to throw a punch.

In-school suspension was interesting. The other suspended students and I sat in little desks facing the walls, with little cubicle-style dividers between us. If we had homework we, were allowed to work on it, but otherwise there was no talking and we weren't allowed to leave our chairs. When you finished your homework you were supposed to just sit quietly for the rest of the school day. The proctor was a very irritable man who based all of his actions on the assumption that we Problem Students were going try to sneak something past him. To be fair, he was right, if only because we had nothing better to do and children really do try to live up to the expectations of adults around them. One black girl with cornrows passed around a bag of mints to everyone in suspension without the proctor noticing. Others simply vanished during lunch and earned themselves additional suspension for running away from school. I have a suspicion that most in-school suspensions were actually earned while the student was already in suspsension.

That first day in suspension I told myself that I didn't belong there with the other problem students. While it was true that I had been in a fight, I was only defending myself. I had defended myself against an innocent bystander, but that was a mistake anyone could make. I would be out of suspension in a day, never to return. And when I got back into class, people wouldn't bully me anymore, because I had finally stood up for myself and shown that I couldn't be pushed around.

I was mistaken. It turns out that if an unpopular student attacks a much smaller student who didn't do anything to him, the unpopular student is not suddenly treated as a hero. Furthermore, the whole day I was in suspension, the other boy and the eyewitnesses had been telling and re-telling the story of the fight. The rumor flew around the school, growing as it went, and by the time I rejoined class /I/ was the bully! Things went from bad to worse. For one thing, I was a now a bad guy, so other students who were previously neutral or even sympathetic were now justified in "standing up" to me. For another, I had proven that if you taunted me enough I would do something much more interesting than simply turning red, tearing up, and yelling incoherently. I wasn't physically intimidating in the slightest, so the idea of getting to be in a fight with me seemed pretty exciting to my classmates.

I'm a little fuzzy on the timeline for the next fight. The first fight happened some time after 9/11, and the singularly bad attempt at hyperbole in around late October hadn't happened yet. That puts the scond fight around two to four weeks after the first one, so there was enough time for me to think about where I had gone wrong. Somehow, I arrived at the conclusion that my problem was in fighting the wrong person. If I had correctly jumped the guy who had tripped me instead of a random bystander, everything would have worked out better. I mentioned that in many ways I am very, very stupid, right?

The second fight also started in a hallway. I don't think it was between classes, because everyone was walking in the same direction. Maybe we were going to a school assembly? If we were, I never arrived and so don't remember it. What happened was that someone poked me on the shoulder from behind. You know the game; you poke someone on the shoulder and then pull your hand back really fast so when they turn around they can't tell it was you. If you're feeling clever, you tap them on the opposite shoulder and see if you can get them to blame someone else. Well, I turned around and there were three boys who had all teased me, smiling and trying not to laugh. I decided the middle boy had poked me, because he was the meanest and sort of the ringleader of that group of three. If he hadn't done it himself, he had put the other one up to it and that was good enough for me.

I didn't fight him immediately, though. For all I thought I could solve my social problems and make friends by hitting people, I never actually got into a fight until I was so angry I went beserk. I always tried to be clever, although, because I am very, very stupid about this kind of thing, I wasn't actually clever. What I did was slow down my walking pace so that I ended up behind Middle Kid, and poked him on the shoulder. This annoyed him; he turned around and told me to quit it. It was working! I waited a little bit and did it again. He turned around a second time, and told me to stop. Clearly, I had hit revenge gold. The third time I poked him, though, he ran forward a short distance, turned around, and charged me. I went down, him on top of me, and we grappled & punched for a bit. I don't remember any more detail beyond that I tried to bang his head against the concrete wall in the hallway. These weren't play fights; the only reason nobody got a serious head injury is that I am pathetically bad at fighting.

Again, a teacher noticed, pulled us apart, and marched us off to the principal's office. I was debriefed by a guidance counselor while my parents were notified. In another room, Middle Kid said he was not the one who originally poked me, and his two lackeys backed him up. I was given two days of in-school suspension for fighting; the punishment for fighting was that first offense was 1-3 days suspension, and each subsequent offense doubled the punishment. I asked how long Middle Kid was being suspended for, and was told that he was not being suspended at all, because I had provoked him. Record. Scratch.

Recall that in my first fight, I had been provoked by someone tripping me, not counting months of bullying. I had not been provoked by the person I ended up fighting, but I had been provoked all the same. This was acknowledged by the school administration, and why I was given only a single day of suspsension. The person I attacked was technically engaged in fighting, because he fought back when I attacked him. He was not suspended because he had only fought in self defense. All of this seemed reasonable. However, in the second fight, the situation was reversed. In terms of actual violence, /he/ charged /me/ and I and only fought back in self defense. Even if you expand the definition of fighting to include tapping people on the shoulder, that still clears me because under that definition I was the first person to be assaulted, and whoever admitted to poking me should be the one suspended. I knew that I really had provoked him, and so deserved some punishment, but he had thrown the first punch and the person who first escalates the fight to physical violence was always in the wrong. Even the Mighty Morphin' Power Rangers, who did nothing but beat up monsters, had a sacred rule from Zordon that they were never to escalate a fight. That was why they didn't just bring out the Megazord at the beginning of every episode; they had to wait until Rita Repulsa escalated it by making the monster grow into a giant. 

Before I get into the singularly bad instance of hyperbole that ultimately resulted in me dropping out of 6th grade, I want to share one more violent anecdote. It can't properly be called a fight, and my memory of it is so vague that I don't even remember when it happened relative to the real fights except that it was after the first one. I include this only because teachers have this unjustified belief that bullying and violence only goes on in areas they can't control very well: on the bus, before school, after school, in the bathroom, between classes, and on the playground. And while bullying does happen in all of those places, and time spent in those places accounts for a enough of the school day to make anyone miserable, bullying and violence also occurs during class, when teachers think they know everything that's going on. In the middle of art class one day, I got involved in a heated argument with the girl sitting across from me about feminism as understood by 6th graders. I don't remember what led into this, but she announced that I couldn't hit her, because she was a girl, and boys couldn't hit girls. I replied that boys /can/ hit girls, but /shouldn't/ and in fact nobody should hit anybody, regardless of being a boy or girl. She disagreed, and insisted that girls could hit boys, but boys couldn't hit girls. I made the only logical response to that absurd statement, which was to reach across the table and sock her in the mouth. Without hesitation, she socked me back. We were both satisfied with that; I, because I had demonstrated that boys /can/ hit girls, and she, because she had asserted her dominance by hitting me harder than I hit her. It was very Zen. It was also the only instance I know of where physical violence successfully resolved an argument. It didn't evolve into a brawl and neither of us felt the need to bring in the teacher, so the art teacher simply never noticed. In a completely unrelated incident, another student punctured my scrotum with a pencil during CCD (Catholic Sunday School) and neither teacher noticed until I waddled out of the classroom with the eraser end of the pencil sticking out of the seat of my pants. I was sitting second from the front. There were fewer than 16 students.

Back in the timeline, I was growing desperate. I was being bullied and isolated even worse than before, which I didn't think possible. The two days in in-school suspension had not helped my self-esteem, and this time rumour had a two whole day head start on me. Plus, the administration was blatantly twisting the rules against me. I had not actually read any Kafka or /Catch-22/ at age 11, but I knew enough of their basic plots to understand that from here things could only get worse. I might have been the only 6th grader at John Sevier to fully understand the terror of their exponential suspension doubling system. (Excercise: if every fight gets you double the previous number of days of suspsension, how many days total will you have served after 10 fights? How many school days are in 6th, 7th, and 8th grade put together?) With no other options, I decided to go back to the school guidance counselors. They hadn't helped at all before, but I decided this was because they hadn't taken me seriously. I had been in two fights (that they knew of) now, so they had to understand that /something/ was wrong.

However, after talking with the guidance counselor, I got the impression that she didn't care very much at all. She didn't seem moved by my description of my daily torment. I am very, very stupid about a lot of things, so it's possible she did care and I simply didn't notice. I decided to try hyperbole. I could have said, "When people tease me, it makes me so mad that steam comes out of my ears." I could have said, "When people tease me, it makes me so mad that my pants turn purple and I grow giant green muscles." I thought it was stupid that I had to say anything at all, because it was a matter of record that I had already gotten into two fights and served three days of in-school suspension. What I actually said?

"When people tease me, it makes me so mad I want to stab someone."

The guidance counselor did a very good job hiding her alarm. Well, since I was retarded with respect to figuring out people's emotions, perhaps she only did an average job. In any event, I didn't notice.

"Where would you get a knife?" she asked.

"From the kitchen," I said instantly, because I was a very fast thinker and very, very smart in some ways and that was a very easy question. Where does your family keep knives? I didn't know the difference between a bread knife and a meat cleaver, but I knew they were both kept in the Sharp Things drawer next to the can opener.

"Where would you put it?" she asked.

Ah, we were doing roleplaying games, like the one where everyone in your class is trapped on a desert island and can only bring one thing, and you were the hero because nobody else thought to bring a water purifier. I instantly felt comfortable. I loved role playing games, but I had learned not to talk about Dungeons & Dragons with strangers because in the Bible Belt a lot of people thought it was satanic. Guidance counselors were the exception, because they were the one group of people who understood the great psychological value of roleplaying. Have I mentioned that in many ways I am very, very stupid?

"In an unused locker," I said, because I was a very fast thinker and very, very smart in some ways. I knew that the school was allowed to search your locker, but we had a ton of unused, unlocked lockers lining the hallways. People only played with the ones near classrooms, so if you picked an unused locker in the middle of the hallway nobody would mess with it. Even if they suspected you personally of having a weapon, they wouldn't know to search your secret locker. If it was discovered by accident, you just had to not say anything and nobody would know it was yours. I had given this no thought before she asked the question. I was proud of this answer because it seemed very clever to me and I had come up with it very quickly.

"When would you use it?" she asked.

"In the hallway, between classes." I said. This was another easy question, much less tricky than the lockers. Between of all the paranoia around 9/11 and Columbine, we had plenty of lockdown drills. However, lockdown drills always started in the classroom, as you need a room to lock down in. Nobody would have had any idea what to do, or even which teacher to look to for directions, if something happened between classes. Plus, some hallways were so crowded that you wouldn't have to aim; it was impossible to swing without hitting someone. Even after people figured out you had a weapon, they couldn't run away easily on account of all the other people panicking. Based on the response times to earlier fights, I figured someone could stab three or four people before the teachers even noticed. I wasn't proud of this answer at all, because it was very obvious and someone really ought to have thought of it when planning the lockdown drills.

Looking back, I wonder if any other 11-year-old in the world would have had both the intelligence to come up with those answers and the stupidity to say them out loud.

We talked a bit more, and then I was sent back to class, which was English. A short time later, a different guidance counselor poked her head in the door and said "I need to borrow someone for something."

A bunch of students raised their hands. I didn't, because I was feeling miserable and didn't want to do anything.

"Hmm, no, it needs to be someone who went to Washington Elementary." she said. 

The students who had volunteered but not gone to Washington Elementary put there hands down, but there were still a number of hands up.

"Hmmm." she said. "David, how about you?" I looked up.

"I don't want to." I said. "There are a bunch of people who want to go, why don't you take one of them?"

"No, no no. It really has to be you. Don't worry, you're not in trouble."

This caused quite a bit of stir. I got up and left class with her. I am very, very stupid in many ways but even this was suspicious to me. I began to panic. Had I done something wrong? I tried to think of anything I might have done wrong and only then realized that what I had said to the guidance counselor might have been taken as a threat. Priests at confession and guidance counselors are a lot alike, in that they're people you can trust who will keep any problems you tell them private. The difference is that priests answer to God who loves you unconditionally and is always ready to forgive you, while guidance counselors answer to the Board of Education which had Zero Tolerance.

I knew about Zero Tolerance from the newspapers. It was a way to deal with the problems of violence and guns in schools. They way it worked was that school administrators would not tolerate anything even resembling violence. For example a boy might draw a picture of a gun, and maybe he might get inspired by his picture and decide to bring in a real gun and shoot people. What you had to do in that case was suspend him for drawing the picture, while the gun was still imaginary. The "Zero" part of "Zero Tolerance" was that the school absolutely had to take action. Even if they didn't think the student was really a threat, or the student was really a nice kid, they weren't allowed to tolerate even imaginary violence. This was because in some of the school shootings, the teachers and principals had been warned that violence was about to happen but they didn't believe any of their students would actually shoot anyone. Since teachers and principals were bad at deciding which threats to pay attention to, Zero Tolerance required them to pay attention to all threats so they couldn't mess up. There was a little more to it than that, like that schools were supposed to consider /access/, which means whether or not the student can actually do the thing he's threatening to do. A kid who doodles pictures of guns might have a gun at home he can bring to school, but a kid who draws tanks can't drive a tank to school no matter how much he wants to, so he's actually less dangerous even though a tank can kill more people than a handguns. Some people wrote letters to the editor saying they didn't think suspending children for drawing pictures was a good idea, but the consensus seemed to be that it was necessary to protect our schools and children should just learn to not do things like draw guns or talk about fighting.

I realized that the other questions the guidance counselor had asked me were to see if I had access to a knife and a realistic plan to use one. I hadn't have a plan before she asked me the questions, but I didn't think I could convince her that I didn't have access because pretty much everbody has a least one knife at home. I couldn't explain the situation and apologize, because Zero Tolerance meant that unlike God the school wasn't allowed to forgive anyone who had made a threat for any reason.

My mother was called in, and she had to talk to the principal and the guidance counselors and some other people. Sometimes I was involved in the conversation, sometimes not. Things were very serious. I was disagreeable and tried to contradict everything the guidance counselor said I had said, but none of that helped my case. I was sent home from school indefinitely. The school didn't want be to come back until I had professional psychological help and they were certain that I wasn't going to stab anyone. I thought I had been expelled. I don't know what my enforced absence was considered officially, but it wasn't expulsion because Tennessee schools are required to keep publically available records of suspensions and expulsions, broken down by gender, ethnicity, and disability. Records from 2001 and 2002 show that only one student, a white female, was expelled from John Sevier Middle School during the time I was barred from school.

The weird thing was that as much as I hated school and didn't want to go, I also didn't want to be expelled. I actually already had a psychologist, a nice man named Dr. Burns, from my troubles in 4th and 5th grade. I was taken to see him again, but I don't think it went very well at first. I mostly did what he called "verbal sparring." My trust in adults and counselors had been completely shattered. I learned that the worst thing you could do, even works than fighting, was to forget that counselors represented the interests of the world of adults above all else. They were friendly but they were not your friend. Even the way they pulled me out of class was dishonest. I still, twelve years later, have flashbacks to that counselor poking her head into my English class whenever a supervisor asks to talk to me in private.

I was not doing well. We experimented with different kinds of antidepressants. I have heard well-meaning adults say that children are too young to have a serious mental illness and shouldn't be given psychoactive drugs. While drugs like Prozac hadn't been extensively tested on children in 2001 and there's a valid medical argument to be had about whether it's a good idea to assume drugs will work in children becayse they work in adults, it is categorically false to say that children are immune to severe clinical depression.

I thought about suicide. I wasn't afraid of dying, because I still mostly believed in God and the afterlife. Catholic teaching holds that suicide is the one sin that cannot be forgiven, not because killing yourself is any worse than killing someone else, but because after you commit suicide you can't seek forgiveness on account of being dead. But there was a way around that. You could commit suicide in a way that wouldn't kill you immediately and then ask for forgiveness between the point of no return and when you actually died. The people we watched jump from the burning World Trade Center towers had plenty of time to pray before they hit the ground, for instance.

The tricky part would be how to go about doing it. I couldn't think of anything better than swallowing batteries or household cleaners. Those kill you by burning holes in your stomach and intestines. It is a very slow and painful way to die. I didn't want to suffer, but more importantly a slow poison method leaves a lot of time for someone to take you to a hospital and save your life. Then everyone would know you tried to commit suicide and lock you in a psychatric hospital and no one would trust you ever again. I also wasn't sure how effective it would be. The stuff inside batteries was bad for you, but how long would the protective outer casing hold up inside your stomach? Would it pass through before rupturing? How many AAAs would you need to swallow to ensure a fatality? I knew it was possible to kill yourself by drinking "household cleaners" but the only specific dangerous one I knew of was REDACTED which I didn't think we had at home. Dish soap probably wasn't going to cut it; was laundry or dishwasher detergent good enough? Maybe old fashioned laundry detergent was really dangerous but modern stuff was child safe. I really didn't want to guess wrong, because I had had enough of psychologists and counselors and a failed suicide attempt would just mean I would have to see more of them.

I told none of this to Dr. Burns or any other psychologist or psychiatrist I saw. If you have ever had any kind of therapy or psychological treatment, you know that the doctor will ask, every visit, whether you have had any thoughts of hurting yourself or others. Dr. Burns asked, every time, and I deliberately lied to him, every time. I rationalized it by thinking that I didn't especially /want/ to commit suicide, I was just thinking thought about it a lot. But really I had learned that it was a trap question, like "Where would you get the knife?" that would only make things worse if answered carelessly.

I worried a lot about what my future would be like. What if I never made friends again, for the rest of my life? I had a lot of fears and anxieties, but the weirdest one was that I was afraid that I might grow up into an evil genius. I knew without a doubt that I was very smart. Reflecting on the unused lockers and the crowded hallways between class I realized that this included coming up with clever ways to kill people. I also knew that when people made me very angry, I lost control and hurt people. John Sevier Middle School certainly seemed to think that I was a menace to public safety. It seemed plausible that I might invent some kind terrible weapon and then not be able to stop myself from using it. Alfred Nobel invented TNT and then dedicated his estate to try to make up for all of the people killed with TNT-based bombs. Some involved in the Atom Bomb project had similar stories of regret. I considered myself not inferior to those scientists. Hitler was responsible for killing an awful lot of people and he only had somewhat above average intelligence. I was probably a lot smarter than Hitler. I calculated that if I had a 1% chance of being responsible for 1,000,000 deaths, my average death toll would be 10,000 people. If I committed suicide instead, only one person would have to die. I talked about this fear a little with Dr. Burns, but I don't think I explained it very well. I think what I actually said was "I'm afraid I'm turning into Hitler" which doesn't make any sense at all. 

Eventually, between my parents, Dr. Burns, drugs, and being in my stable home environment instead of in the oppressive school, my mood began to improve. I had left school in late October or possibly early November, and I was allowed back to John Sevier Middle School at some point in the second semester. I had had some insights into why physical violence was not a good solution to a social problem. I decided to be a pacifist, which I thought meant no punching, kicking, biting, or any other kind of striking. It's a decent working definition of the term, but as we'll see shortly, insufficient.

Things seemed to be working better than before I had been removed from school. The other kids had some sense that /something/ strange had happened that resulted in me being absent from school for months, but no clue what. One "theory" was that the CIA had drafted me to help track down Osama bin Laden. Absurd, but not slanderous either. I had regular appointments scheduled with the guidance office, and teachers payed extra attention to me. I was calmer coming out of my "vacation." Still, it didn't take long for my new commitment to pacifism to be tested.

The school cafeteria was very loud and crowded. The sixth grade boys for our wing of the building all sat at one extra-long table in the back of the lunchroom. It was a great place to tease people because your audience is every other boy in the class.

"Does you dad have a ... truck?" asked the boy across from me.

"No." I said. "He drives a car."

The boy laughed, and got the attention of the rest of the table.

"Did you hear that? He said his dad doesn't have a truck! Ahahaha! His dad doesn't have truu~uuuck!"

Apparently, I had missed some new slang in my months away. The boy leaned forward and said in a very nasty voice:

"Is that because you ... bit it off in bed last night?"

He wasn't just making fun of me, he was making fun of my family. You were supposed to stick up for your family. I was very angry, but didn't completely lose control. I remembered that I was going to try pacifism from here on out. 

I took a chicken nugget, dipped it in barbecue sauce, and then rubbed it all over his face and hair. He didn't hit me back. I think he was too surprised by my unorthodox method of assault. There was a teacher nearby, who took him to go clean up. I'm fairly certain the teachers were aware of the incident -- I might have even been pulled into the principal's office -- but I recieved no punishment. It didn't count as a fight. My new strategy of nonviolence through food had worked! A very peculiar form of nonviolence, but I was 11 and no one had taught me otherwise.

It wouldn't work twice. A few days later found me once again at the boys lunch table, seated third from the end. The same teacher was standing nearby again, less than ten feet away. It hadn't taken me long to realize that she was there to watch me to make sure I didn't pull out a knife in the cafeteria. I was a little annoyed at first, but I got over it when I realized it meant that she was also be in place to intervene if and when I was bullied again.

Sitting at corner of the table, on the same side as me (so there was one boy sitting between us) was Final Boss Kid. Final Boss Kid was the meanest and angriest 6th grader in the whole school. He was a little shorter than me, but extremely muscular. Probably 12 or 13. I don't think he shaved yet, but he had definitely started on his growth spurt. The rest of us were physically intimidated by him to varying degrees. I don't think he had any friends. The good thing about Final Boss Kid was that his class schedule was highly irregular, so you didn't have to see him very often. He was in some kind of behavioral program (I didn't know this at the time) which accounts for some of his missing classes, but I think he also played hooky whenever he felt like it. He certainly liked the image of someone who didn't care at all about school rules.

Sitting across from Final Boss Kid, and closest to where the teacher was standing, was Other Boy. Final Boss Kid staring at Other Boy and emitting a constant stream of profanity. I don't think he was saying real sentences, just a big jumble of curse words. The teacher was clearly in range to hear this, but she didn't seem in the least concerned. I didn't like cursing. I had been taught that curse words were bad and highly offensive. I don't know why we teach our children that curse words are offensive; all it does is give them another way to be offended. Today I think that between people who say "damn" and people who judge people who say "damn", the first group is nicer because they're only saying the word while the second group is actually doing it. But at the time, I still thought curse words were offensive and so I was offended. So I flagged down the teacher.

"Teacher!" I said. "Final Boss Kid is cursing at Other Boy!"

I don't remember her exact response, whether it was "I know", "Don't tattle", or a simple "No cursing, Final Boss Kid." What it was, was utterly flaccid. I was shocked. What was the point of being on watch in the cafeteria if you didn't care if the students you were watching were breaking the rules? Final Boss Kid did stop cursing at Other Boy, though. He made Spacer Boy switch seats with him, so he was sitting next to me. He then resumed his stream of profanity, this time leaning in and staring at /my/ face.

I looked up to the teacher, hoping to make eye contact. Her back was turned. I looked back at Final Boss Kid. He was saying some really bad words to me. I was getting angry. He kept going. I checked the teacher, who still wasn't paying attention. I picked up his blue Powerade -- I don't know where he got the Powerade, the school cafeteria didn't provide it and he hadn't packed a lunch -- and poured it over his head.

Then, very suddenly, I had my back to the tile floor with him standing over me, still continuing his tirade. He began kicking me in the head and chest repeatedly. I did not fight back. This was pacifism. He kept kicking me. I did not defend myself, even to cover my head. I probably should have, but I was dazed from the impact with the floor and his shoe. (If you ever find yourself in this situation, at minimum cover your head. You can get serious brain damage or even die this way.) Turning the other cheek was very painful. It took the teacher -- the one whose only responsibility was to keep an eye on me -- an eternity to notice and another eternity to pull Final Boss Kid off of me. It took two teachers to manhandle him away, still flailing and kicking and screaming profanity at the top of his lungs. I think I scared the teachers who came to rescue me, because I wasn't moving at all when they arrived. I hadn't lost consciousness or anything; quite the opposite, I was hyperfocused on keeping my body rigid and /notfightingback/ /notfightingback/ /notfightingback/. It took me some time to realize it was safe to relax my body and breathe.

There was the usual trip to haul everyone to the principals office, but I was calm this time. I had won. I hadn't fought back, even a little bit. No one could accuse me of fighting. This time justice would work correctly. I would have several days of relief while Final Boss Kid was in suspension. Everything was coming up roses.

I recieved four days of in-school suspension, for my third offense of fighting.

Final Boss Kid recieved one day of in-school suspension. Not for fighting, but for cursing at the teachers as they dragged him off of my motionless body.

This was the last straw for my parents. They pulled me out of school and registered me as a homeschooled student. My mom registered me as an eighth grade homeschooler the next school year. The year after that, the year my younger sister would have entered John Sevier Middle School, our whole family picked up and moved two states north to my dad's hometown, where I attended the same elite, all-male Jesuit high school he did, St. Xavier High School.